We learned in a previous lesson
that intuition lies at the crossroads of knowledge and experience.
There's no better example of this than when monitoring your environment.
For instance, party or monitoring includes alerts for logins in foreign countries.
Your knowledge tells you it isn't uncommon for members of your organization to travel.
So the alerts are reviewed on a schedule as opposed to real time.
Your experience tells you that Stephanie in sales,
often travels to Europe.
So the alert from a login in the Netherlands isn't necessarily actionable just yet.
However, the intuition you've developed by
reviewing these logs everyday tells you that when reviewing,
you search all of the logins from the affected team members around the time of the alert,
not just when the alert fired.
In doing so, you see that the alert fired for
a login from the Netherlands at 11:00 pm and one hour later,
Stephanie logged in from Austin, Texas.
In cyber security, this is called the Superman theory.
Only Superman could go from the Netherlands to Austin,
Texas in one hour.
It is likely that Stephanie's credentials have been compromised.
By using the data your systems provide you and your own intuition,
you have mitigated a threat to your organization
much more quickly and proactively to many of your peers.